[&larr; Table of Contents](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

# Naming Conventions
✏️ Use these guidelines to ensure styles and components are named with consistency and
clarity.

## Dictionary variables
Variables generated by `style-dictionary` are based on the object structure of json files
in `src/dictionary/properties`.

Many of these properties map to CSS properties, so it is preferred to include the CSS
property name in the variable name:

```
--font-color-primary
--zindex-popover
--color-red
```


## Components

Use `PascalCase` for component names.

```diff
-<Menubutton />
+<MenuButton />
```

Prefer simple component names.

```diff
-<FdsButton />
+<Button />
```

Prefer props for declaring variants instead of separate components.

```diff
-<PrimaryButton />
-<SecondaryButton />
+<Button type="primary|secondary" />
```

When there is a parent-child relationship between two components, make that relationship
explicit through naming:

```diff
-<Item /> /* 💭 what kind of item? */
+<FlexItem /> /* 💭 this looks like a child of a `Flex`! */
```

## Props

Props for event handlers should include an `on` prefix:

```diff
-hover
+onHover
```

Boolean props should have an auxiliary verb prefix:

```diff
-selected
+isSelected

-closeButton
+hasCloseButton

-portal
+usePortal
```

When a prop expects a React component instead of a primitive, use `PascalCase`:

```diff
-icon
+Icon
```

Props that accept a list of items should always be plural:

```diff
-list={['thing one', 'thing two']}
+listItems={['thing one', 'thing two']}
```

## CSS classes

### Additive classes
CSS classes in FDS follow an _additive class pattern_. A base class should define default
styles of an element, and additional classes can be added to modify style properties.

**Avoid binary class switching. Use an additive class pattern instead.**

```diff
-className={isSelected ? 'menu-item-selected' : 'menu-item-normal'}
+className=cx('menu-item', { 'menu-item--selected': isSelected})
```

### Naming patterns
In FDS, we follow a modified BEM naming convention. With our convention, hyphens carry the
meaning for block-element relationships and underscores are reserved for conditional
classes.

```css
/* parent-child */
.base-child {}

/* modifier */
.base--modifier {}

/* child modifier */
.base-child--modifier {}

/* conditional (not in use yet) */
.condition_base--modifier {}
```

#### Base
The word at the beginning of a class name is the "base" of the class. This could
refer to an element, a CSS property, or a concept as a standalone entity.

CSS properties as "base":

- **`.margin`**`--top`
- **`.fontSize`**`--xl`
- **`.color`**`--red`

Concepts that do not map to a single CSS property can also be a "base" name:

- **`.flush`**`--all`
- **`.childAlign`**`--center--center`
- **`.media`**`--xl`


#### Child
Parent-child relationships are denoted by a single hyphen. This allows us to keep our
selectors flat (a single class without ancestry) while providing a hint that the selector
is in some way related to a parent element.

```css
.flex-flexItem {} /* the flexItem is a child of "flex" */
.button-icon {} /* this is for an icon element that is a child of a "button" */
```

#### Modifier
A double hyphen indicates the class modifies some style property.

- `.flush`**`--all`**
- `.media`**`--xl`**
- `.menu-item`**`--selected`**

#### Conditional
Some classes may apply their styles conditionally based on browser support, viewport size,
or other contextual condition. We indicate this with a prefix and underscore at the
beginning of the class name.

- **`.atMedium_`**`margin--all`
- **`.atLarge_`**`display--block`
